So, let's hop right into it and get these
controls done for the actual player.
So if we zoom in on this a little bit
,it looks like we have a shuffle button.
A previous button, a play slash
pause button, a next button, and
then a repeat button.
And then followed by a track or
seek bar, however you wanna call it.
That shows the current runtime and
then the full duration.
So and as you anticipate, we do expect
that to move as time goes on and
click to seek drag to seek.
So we will attempt to
get all of that done.
And let's hop right into it.
So what we'll do is we'll
come into our code.
And we'll make a new component here and
we're gonna call this just the player.
Player dot TSX in the component folder.
So, first thing first is we're gonna
import some of the things for our UI,
which is gonna come from chakra.
It's been so good to us lately.
We'll just keep using it, and
it's gonna be a lot of stuff here.
So, a couple things.
They have this really cool
thing called a button group.
We'll use that that's just basically a
bunch of buttons put together next to each
other.
So we gotta use a flex
container to do that.
We're gonna use a box obviously,
we're gonna use the icon button.
We use that one another
component that was really cool.
I think for
that big play button we use that.
Then a bunch of things for
the actual seekbar.
There's a range slider,
that we're gonna use.
And some other things
that come with that is
gonna be a range slider field to track.
A range slider track, yeah there we go and
then another one is range slider thumb.
So all those are gonna work together
that give us that nice seekbar.
We're gonna use the center component which
I'm pretty sure just figures out how to
center things based off.
Whatever situation is basically
a magic flexbox thing.
It's pretty awesome.
We're using the flex container and
then we're gonna use the text.
So we're gonna use all of those.
And then we're also gonna import
a really cool library called react.
Howler so reacts HOWLER
from react dash howler.
So howler JS is the number one standards
audio interface library for JavaScript.
It's not something native to react this
library rhapsody it makes it native
to react.
So it's gonna do a lot
of the heavy lifting for
us as far as interfacing with the audio
but it's not gonna create either the UI.
It doesn't do any UI stuff for
us it just gives us the mechanism of
loading of playing a foul or a sound.
Without this it would be much,
much difficult.
Or I guess we could just use
an issue of file player or audio.
That's not so bad,
this thing just abstract a lot.
Makes it so easy to do so
we'll be interacting with this but
we still gotta do all of the UI
all the state stuff ourselves.
We just don't have to manipulate
the actual song itself.
So we got that we're gonna
import some stuff from react.
So we're gonna have here is gonna be
I've got some use effects going on.
We're gonna have some use refs going on so
we get a reference to the react
taller when it's rendered.
And some states because we gotta
keep track of a bunch of stuff.
So you state and then we're gonna
also pull in some icons and stuff.
So from the icons,
we're gonna pull from react icons.
And I think it's gonna be slash MD for
material.
I really like their icons.
The ones we're gonna use are gonna
be MD shuffle for that shuffle.
There we go.
We're also gonna use MD, previous lines
on the wifi like a component there we go.
And then we're gonna also
use MD next otherwise or
I'm sorry in the skip previous
MD skip that Next let's do that.
And then we're gonna use MD
outline play cicle filled,
I think we did that one before,
outline play circle filled.
And then another one MD
outline circle filled.
And then the last one is Md,
outline, repeat.
Md, my repeats repeats
there we go okay.
So we got that and then lastly we're
gonna do a little more import for
our action that we just
created in our store.
So we wanna be able to use that so
we can import from easy-peasy and
we're gonna use a hook
called use store action.
And that'll let us use
the action that we created.
Cool, so lots of imports,
a lot of things happen there.
And it's totally fine if you don't
import all these right now because as
we go along well we can import them.
So which is what I would
normally do in the code anyway,
I will import them as I'm building them.
I just don't wanna be scrolling up and
down to the page as I'm building for
the sake of teaching.
Yes.
>> Did you just import easy-peasy we
didn't actually import our store?
>> We imported something called use
store actions from easy-peasy but
yeah we're not gonna import the store.
It's already provided through
the provider that we added so
every component has access to it already,
yeah.
All right, let's make this player, so
const player, equals our component here.
Always, I'm just gonna default export it
right quick and put something in there.
And get it rendered on the page so we can
build it and see it at the same time.
Just gonna return a box here.
Save that, and then the player
is gonna go into player bar.
So we'll default export
that go to the player bar,
here where I put controls which
is basically in this box.
That's, has a 40% width.
This is where we're gonna put the player,
so, player in here,
I need to import it, there we go.
So let's go verify that it works.
You can see hello from player,
players loaded up.
Now we can actually make
this thing look good.
So there's a lot going
on here I keep saying.
So what we're gonna do first is just try
to get the UI down with no interactions
no state.
And then we'll move on to adding
the state and the handlers.
And then lastly, we'll get the interaction
down and we can finally play it.
So a couple steps to get
this player working.
So heading back to the player, I said,
we're just gonna start with the UI first.
Let's just kinda get that going and then
we'll move up and do all the other things.
So the first thing is let's we have our
box, put this on another line here.
Got our box here, which is gonna
be the container for everything.
And then what I need to do is I
need to render the react handler.
It's actually a component.
Like I said,
it doesn't have a visual interface to it.
It's just something that has
to be put in the Dom and
then we can reference it
using the use ref hook.
So I'm gonna add another box here.
And then I'm gonna render the reacts.
Howler component like this.
It has a bunch of props on it.
We won't deal with those props right now.
We'll wait till we get to actually
adding state and stuff like that but
we have that there so we have this box.
The next thing I'm gonna do is I'm
gonna use the center component.
I'm using this component for
the buttons, yeah,
that thing's gonna freak out
because I want some props.
I'm using the center component for these
buttons here because I wanna center them.
It's gonna center those
buttons in the center.
So do that.
And as we're building it's out if we don't
wanna see this error if you actually wanna
see where you're doing.
Just comment out the react taller
until we get to it stellify.
You'll need to put it in
there if you don't wanna,
I'll leave my commented out so
it doesn't break everything.
So do the center component here.
Then we'll do the button group.
So we get all those buttons in there.
So we got our button group here.
And then for the button group,
you can just throw whatever
buttons you want to here.
We're gonna use the icon buttons, so when
I say icon button, this be the first one.
And this one is gonna be pretty sure
this will be the shuffle one, so
this will be the shuffle one.
So we're gonna go back here.
We're gonna give it a outline of nuns,
I think by default they have
this weird outline on him.
So we're gonna take that off,
which looks like a border variance
will be the link variants.
And then what we're gonna do is as far
as color, we'll just say gray.
600 like that in fact all these
are probably gonna be the same color.
So what I'll probably do is just
move this color up to the center so
everything but needed has the same color.
It's gonna freak out if we don't add
an ARIA label to these icon buttons on
ARIA label.
And I'm just gonna call it shuffle,
like so.
Font size is gonna be 24 pixels or
whatever you feel works.
Let's save it so I can format it.
And then for the icon we're gonna render.
And make sure you render this as an use
these JSX brackets, the MD shuffle.
So I'm not sure how familiar
you all might be with JSX.
But at the end of the day,
if you look at the output of JSX,
each one of these components
is a function call.
Right?
And props are arguments to that function,
children arguments to that function.
And when you render a component
like this with the brackets,
you're invoking the function
you're calling it.
So they just think about that when you see
these components, the difference between.
Just referencing a component out
here versus wrapping it in brackets.
Is the difference between just referencing
a function versus actually calling it.
Cool so we got our MD shuffle there,
to show up,
I don't know if mine actually showed
up let's see I can't actually see it.
Maybe I can make sure it's
not a different colors.
I'll just let me check the DOM.
I put icons with poro
should be icon singular.
That'll do it.
There we go.
So now we got the shuffle icon there,
it's gray.
And we'll do the same thing for
all the other icons.
So the next one is gonna be,
previous than play pause the next repeat.
So I'm just gonna copy and
just switch them out so
look at this other icon here for shuffle
for underneath it we'll change this to MD.
Skip previous so we got that.
And then we're gonna make two for
the play and
we're gonna make one for
the play and one for the pause.
But then when we add our state will toggle
them depending on if we're playing or not.
So it's gonna look weird right now until
we add the state because they're both
gonna be on the page.
But when we get the state we'll only show
one depending on if we're playing or not.
So I'm gonna make one here for
the playing so
for playing this one's gonna
be in the outline play.
In the outs line,
play circle fields like so.
And we're gonna make this a little
bigger because other ones are 24.
But look at that button
is actually a lot bigger.
And the color is always gonna be white
because when it's on it's active question.
>> Shouldn't the ARIA
label actually change?
>> Yes, we should change
our labels if we wanna be.
Yeah compliance so
change our labels this one will be skip.
This one will be was this one play.
There we go.
We're gonna make another one for pause.
Should just be able to
replace that with pause,
make that 40 pixels, change that to pause.
If you go back, but it's looking good,
they're all lined up perfectly.
Got a play, got a pause,
got a previous got a skip,
all we need is a next and a repeat.
So for the next one I believe it's
called indy skip next make sure you go
back to 24 pixels for that one.
That looks good yeah this also should not
be white, should be great, looks great.
And then the last one will just be,
repeat.
So this will be, what is it?
Md outline repeat.
And change the label to repeat.
There we go.
So we got all our icons, I mean it's kinda
quite a lot of JSX here,
I mean that I guess we could.
Do what I did before and take some of this
out, put it in an array iterate over it,
but because a lot of these are gonna have.
Click handlers on them,
that's where it gets complicated is,
okay, but
now you have to find click handlers.
And some array outside of a component
where the functions don't even exist yet.
So probably not each kept
do a bunch of crazy stuff.
So we're just gonna render
them in here like this.